doc/03-module-configuration.md, before:

# Module configuration
Here you will learn how to configure the module and details about the options you can choose.

The configuration can be done via web interface or by editing the configuration ini-file directly.

On most distributions, if you used the repository as install source, you will find the configuration file in `/etc/icingaweb2/modules/grafana`.

If the directory does not exists create it with:

```bash
install -d -m 0755 -g icingaweb2 /etc/icingaweb2/modules/grafana
```

Then use your preferred editor to create the file config.ini in the just created or existing directory. Example:


```ini
[grafana]
username = "your grafana username"
host = "hostname:3000"
protocol = "https"
password = "123456"
height = "280"
width = "640"
timerange = "3h"
timerangeAll = "1M/M"
defaultorgid = "1"
defaultdashboard = "icinga2-default"
defaultdashboardpanelid = "1"
shadows = "1"
datasource = "influxdb"
accessmode = "proxy"
timeout = "5"
enablecache = "no"
usepublic = "no"
publichost = "otherhost:3000"
publicprotocol = "http"
custvardisable = "idontwanttoseeagraph"
ssl_verifypeer = "0"
ssl_verifyhost = "0"
```

Hint: to display debug information for graphs you can use the URL parameter `&grafanaDebug`. This requires the `grafana/debug` permission.

## Available Options

|Setting                | Short description|
|-----------------------|-----------------------|
|host                   | **Required.** Grafana server host name (and port).|
|protocol               | **Optional.** Protocol used to access the Grafana server. Defaults to `http`.|
|height                 | **Optional.** Global graph height in pixel. Defaults to `280`.|
|width                  | **Optional.** Global graph width in pixel. Defaults to `640`.|
|timerange              | **Optional.** Global time range for graphs. Defaults to `6h`.|
|timerangeAll           | **Optional.** Time range for all graphs feature. Defaults to `Previous week`.|
|datasource             | **Required for Grafana 4.x only.** Type of the Grafana datasource (`influxdb`, `graphite` or `pnp`). Defaults to `influxdb`.|
|defaultdashboard       | **Required.** Name of the default dashboard which will be shown for unconfigured graphs. Set to `none` to hide the module output. Defaults to `icinga2-default`.|
|defaultdashboarduid    | **Required for Grafana 5** The UID of the default dashboard for **Grafana 5**.
|defaultdashboardpanelid| **Required** ID of the panel used in the default dashboard. Defaults to `1`.
|shadows                | **Optional.** Show shadows around the graphs. ** Defaults to `false`.|
|defaultorgid           | **Required.** Number of the default organization id where dashboards are located. Defaults to `1`.
|accessmode             | **Optional.** Controls whether graphs are fetched with curl (`indirectproxy`) or in iframe ('iframe'). Iframe needs `auth.anonymous` enabled in Grafana. Defaults to `indirectproxy`.|
|timeout                | **Proxy only** **Optional.** Timeout in seconds for proxy mode to fetch images. Defaults to `5`.|
|authentication         | **Proxy only** Authentication type used to access Grafana. Can be set to `anon`,`token` or `basic`. Defaults to `anon`.
|username               | **Proxy with basic only** **Required** HTTP Basic Auth user name to access Grafana.|
|password               | **Proxy with basic only** **Required** HTTP Basic Auth password to access Grafana. Requires the username setting.|
|apitoken               | **Proxy with token only** **Required** Token of a Service Account to access Grafana.|
|enablecache            | **Indirect Proxy Only** **Optional.** Enables or disable caching graphs. Defaults to `yes`. |
|usepublic              | **Optional** Enable usage of publichost/protocol. Defaults to `no`.|
|publichost             | **Optional** Use a different host for the graph links.|
|publicprotocol         | **Optional** Use a different protocol for the graph links.|
|custvardisable         | **Optional** Custom variable (vars.idontwanttoseeagraph for example) that will disable graphs. Defaults to `grafana_graph_disable`.|
|custvarconfig          | **Optional** Custom variable (vars.usegraphconfig for example) that will be used as config name. Defaults to `grafana_graph_config`.|
|ssl_verifypeer         | **Proxy mode only** **Optional.** Verify the peer's SSL certificate. Defaults to `false`.|
|ssl_verifyhost         | **Proxy mode only** **Optional.** Verify the certificate's name against host. Defaults to `false`.|


---

### host
**Required** Hostname and port or Grafana URL depending on your Grafana installation.

For example `127.0.0.1:300` or `localhost:3000` or `grafana-host-domain.tld/grafana` or `10.111.1.1/grafana`

### protocol
The protocol used to fetch images (and for the links to graphs if enabled). If you use proxy mode with non anonymous access, it is highly
recommended to use secure protocol (https).

### height
The default height used for the graphs in pixels. Defaults to `280` pixels.
This option can be overwritten by a graph configuration.

### width
The default width used for the graphs in pixels. Defaults to `640` pixels.
This option can be overwritten by a graph configuration.

### timerange
The default timerange used for the graphs. Defaults to `6 hours`.
This option can be overwritten by a graph configuration.

### timerangeAll
Time range for all graphs feature. Defaults to `Previous week`

### datasource
The datasource that Grafana server uses. Can be InfluxDB, Graphite.

### defaultorgid
Number of the default organization id where dashboards are located. Defaults to `1`.
You can fetch the id if you browse to your Grafana server menu -> Admin -> Global Orgs

### defaultdashboard
The name of the default dashboard that is used when **no graph is configured** for your service, host or command.
See [04-graph configuration](04-graph-configuration.md) for details about how to configure graphs.

### defaultdashboarduid
**Required for Grafana 5** The UID for the default dashboard for Grafana 5.
To get the UID, inspect the URL from your dashboard inside Grafana, it is right before the dashboard name.
For example the URL is 'https://192.168.178.52:3000/d/FxAre-ekz/icinga2-default?orgId=1' the UID is then 'FxAre-ekz'.

### defaultdashboardpanelid
The id of the panel used in the default dashboard. Defaults to `1`.

### shadows
Enable/Disable fancy shadows around the graph image.

### accessmode
Controls how the graphs are fetched/delivered for/to the users.
Defaults to `indirectproxy`.

#### indirectproxy
This mode the module still will fetch the graphs with curl on **server side**, but the images are given by reference.
This will speed up the page load, but the image will take some seconds to show up.
Pro: Very fast page loading, very secure.
Contra: Images take some seconds to show up.

#### iframe
In iframe mode you have the full power of Grafana features like mouse over tool tip.
Pro: All features from Grafana enabled. Fast page rendering.
Contra: Less secure, page refresh from Icingaweb2 will be distracting! Needs `auth.anonymous` enabled in Grafana.
Also you need `allow_embedding = true` enabled in your grafana.ini

### ssl_verifypeer
Only for `proxy` & `ìndirectproxy` modes. Verify the peer's SSL certificate. Defaults to `false`.
Read [CURLOPT_SSL_VERIFYHOST](https://curl.haxx.se/libcurl/c/CURLOPT_SSL_VERIFYHOST.html) for more information.

### ssl_verifyhost
Only for `proxy` & `ìndirectproxy` modes.Verify the certificate's name against host. Defaults to `false`.
Read [CURLOPT_SSL_VERIFYPEER](https://curl.haxx.se/libcurl/c/CURLOPT_SSL_VERIFYPEER.html) for more information.

### timeout
Used with 'proxy' mode only.
Timeout in seconds for loading graph images from Grafana server. Defaults to `5 seconds`.
If you often get a timeout message then the image, raise this to 10 or more seconds.

### authentication
Authentication type used to access Grafana. Can be set to `anon`,`token` or `basic`. Defaults to `anon`.
 * `anon` needs enabled [auth.anonymous] enabled in grafana.ini.
 * `basic` needs [auth.basic] enabled in grafana.ini.
 * `token` needs a Service Accounts's token from Grafana.

### username
Used with 'proxy' mode, non anonymous access only.
The username used to authenticate to Grafana server.

### password
Used with 'proxy' mode, non anonymous access only.
The password used to authenticate to Grafana server.

### apitoken
For token access you need to create a Service Account and assign it a token.
See the [Grafana Docs](https://grafana.com/docs/grafana/latest/administration/service-accounts/).

### enablecache
Only for `indirectproxy` access mode. Enables or disable caching graphs. Defaults to `yes`.

Note that depending on your browser images might be cached implicitly.

### usepublic
Enables/Disables the usage of a `public` URL to the Grafana server.
If you have set your grafanaurl for example to localhost then you can set here a URL that is used for to link to Grafana.

### publichost
Used with 'usepublic = yes'.
Public host name and port. Same as `host` option.

### publicprotocol
Used with 'usepublic = yes'.
The protocol used for the links to graphs.

### custvardisable
Name of the custom variable (vars.idontwanttoseeagraph for example) that will disable graphs if set to anything else then false (bool or string). Defaults to `grafana_graph_disable`.
For example `vars.idontwanttoseeagraph = true` or `vars.idontwanttoseeagraph = "true"` or `vars.idontwanttoseeagraph = "whatever"` will disable graphs, while `vars.idontwanttoseeagraph = false` or `vars.idontwanttoseeagraph = "false"` will still show the graphs. This is for Director, because you can't delete vars in Director.

### custvarconfig
Name of the custom variable (vars.usegraphconfig for example) that will be used as graph config name. Defaults to `grafana_graph_config`.
This will overwrite the search order and force the module to use the graph configuration name that the variable points to.
For example you have `vars.grafana_graph_config = "check_my_tesla"` in your service configuration, the module will look for
an [graph configuration](04-graph-configuration.md) that is named `check_my_tesla` and use this to render/show the performance graph.
If there is no such a configuration, the `default-template` will be used.

Commit message:

Reintroduce configuration option for theme
- A default theme option can be set, that will then be overridden if
  the user has set a theme explicitly

doc/03-module-configuration.md, after:

# Module configuration
Here you will learn how to configure the module and details about the options you can choose.

The configuration can be done via web interface or by editing the configuration ini-file directly.

On most distributions, if you used the repository as install source, you will find the configuration file in `/etc/icingaweb2/modules/grafana`.

If the directory does not exists create it with:

```bash
install -d -m 0755 -g icingaweb2 /etc/icingaweb2/modules/grafana
```

Then use your preferred editor to create the file config.ini in the just created or existing directory. Example:


```ini
[grafana]
username = "your grafana username"
host = "hostname:3000"
protocol = "https"
password = "123456"
height = "280"
width = "640"
timerange = "3h"
timerangeAll = "1M/M"
defaultorgid = "1"
defaultdashboard = "icinga2-default"
defaultdashboardpanelid = "1"
shadows = "1"
datasource = "influxdb"
accessmode = "proxy"
timeout = "5"
enablecache = "no"
usepublic = "no"
publichost = "otherhost:3000"
publicprotocol = "http"
custvardisable = "idontwanttoseeagraph"
ssl_verifypeer = "0"
ssl_verifyhost = "0"
```

Hint: to display debug information for graphs you can use the URL parameter `&grafanaDebug`. This requires the `grafana/debug` permission.

## Available Options

|Setting                | Short description|
|-----------------------|-----------------------|
|host                   | **Required.** Grafana server host name (and port).|
|protocol               | **Optional.** Protocol used to access the Grafana server. Defaults to `http`.|
|height                 | **Optional.** Global graph height in pixel. Defaults to `280`.|
|width                  | **Optional.** Global graph width in pixel. Defaults to `640`.|
|timerange              | **Optional.** Global time range for graphs. Defaults to `6h`.|
|timerangeAll           | **Optional.** Time range for all graphs feature. Defaults to `Previous week`.|
|datasource             | **Required for Grafana 4.x only.** Type of the Grafana datasource (`influxdb`, `graphite` or `pnp`). Defaults to `influxdb`.|
|defaultdashboard       | **Required.** Name of the default dashboard which will be shown for unconfigured graphs. Set to `none` to hide the module output. Defaults to `icinga2-default`.|
|defaultdashboarduid    | **Required for Grafana 5** The UID of the default dashboard for **Grafana 5**.
|defaultdashboardpanelid| **Required** ID of the panel used in the default dashboard. Defaults to `1`.
|shadows                | **Optional.** Show shadows around the graphs. ** Defaults to `false`.|
|defaultorgid           | **Required.** Number of the default organization id where dashboards are located. Defaults to `1`.
|accessmode             | **Optional.** Controls whether graphs are fetched with curl (`indirectproxy`) or in iframe ('iframe'). Iframe needs `auth.anonymous` enabled in Grafana. Defaults to `indirectproxy`.|
|timeout                | **Proxy only** **Optional.** Timeout in seconds for proxy mode to fetch images. Defaults to `5`.|
|authentication         | **Proxy only** Authentication type used to access Grafana. Can be set to `anon`,`token` or `basic`. Defaults to `anon`.
|username               | **Proxy with basic only** **Required** HTTP Basic Auth user name to access Grafana.|
|password               | **Proxy with basic only** **Required** HTTP Basic Auth password to access Grafana. Requires the username setting.|
|apitoken               | **Proxy with token only** **Required** Token of a Service Account to access Grafana.|
|enablecache            | **Indirect Proxy Only** **Optional.** Enables or disable caching graphs. Defaults to `yes`. |
|usepublic              | **Optional** Enable usage of publichost/protocol. Defaults to `no`.|
|publichost             | **Optional** Use a different host for the graph links.|
|publicprotocol         | **Optional** Use a different protocol for the graph links.|
|custvardisable         | **Optional** Custom variable (vars.idontwanttoseeagraph for example) that will disable graphs. Defaults to `grafana_graph_disable`.|
|custvarconfig          | **Optional** Custom variable (vars.usegraphconfig for example) that will be used as config name. Defaults to `grafana_graph_config`.|
|theme                  | **Optional.** Default theme for the graph (light or dark). Hint: the user's theme will take precedence. Defaults to `dark`.|
|ssl_verifypeer         | **Proxy mode only** **Optional.** Verify the peer's SSL certificate. Defaults to `false`.|
|ssl_verifyhost         | **Proxy mode only** **Optional.** Verify the certificate's name against host. Defaults to `false`.|


---

### host
**Required** Hostname and port or Grafana URL depending on your Grafana installation.

For example `127.0.0.1:300` or `localhost:3000` or `grafana-host-domain.tld/grafana` or `10.111.1.1/grafana`

### protocol
The protocol used to fetch images (and for the links to graphs if enabled). If you use proxy mode with non anonymous access, it is highly
recommended to use secure protocol (https).

### height
The default height used for the graphs in pixels. Defaults to `280` pixels.
This option can be overwritten by a graph configuration.

### width
The default width used for the graphs in pixels. Defaults to `640` pixels.
This option can be overwritten by a graph configuration.

### timerange
The default timerange used for the graphs. Defaults to `6 hours`.
This option can be overwritten by a graph configuration.

### timerangeAll
Time range for all graphs feature. Defaults to `Previous week`

### datasource
The datasource that Grafana server uses. Can be InfluxDB, Graphite.

### defaultorgid
Number of the default organization id where dashboards are located. Defaults to `1`.
You can fetch the id if you browse to your Grafana server menu -> Admin -> Global Orgs

### defaultdashboard
The name of the default dashboard that is used when **no graph is configured** for your service, host or command.
See [04-graph configuration](04-graph-configuration.md) for details about how to configure graphs.

### defaultdashboarduid
**Required for Grafana 5** The UID for the default dashboard for Grafana 5.
To get the UID, inspect the URL from your dashboard inside Grafana, it is right before the dashboard name.
For example the URL is 'https://192.168.178.52:3000/d/FxAre-ekz/icinga2-default?orgId=1' the UID is then 'FxAre-ekz'.

### defaultdashboardpanelid
The id of the panel used in the default dashboard. Defaults to `1`.

### shadows
Enable/Disable fancy shadows around the graph image.

### accessmode
Controls how the graphs are fetched/delivered for/to the users.
Defaults to `indirectproxy`.

#### indirectproxy
This mode the module still will fetch the graphs with curl on **server side**, but the images are given by reference.
This will speed up the page load, but the image will take some seconds to show up.
Pro: Very fast page loading, very secure.
Contra: Images take some seconds to show up.

#### iframe
In iframe mode you have the full power of Grafana features like mouse over tool tip.
Pro: All features from Grafana enabled. Fast page rendering.
Contra: Less secure, page refresh from Icingaweb2 will be distracting! Needs `auth.anonymous` enabled in Grafana.
Also you need `allow_embedding = true` enabled in your grafana.ini

### ssl_verifypeer
Only for `proxy` & `ìndirectproxy` modes. Verify the peer's SSL certificate. Defaults to `false`.
Read [CURLOPT_SSL_VERIFYHOST](https://curl.haxx.se/libcurl/c/CURLOPT_SSL_VERIFYHOST.html) for more information.

### ssl_verifyhost
Only for `proxy` & `ìndirectproxy` modes.Verify the certificate's name against host. Defaults to `false`.
Read [CURLOPT_SSL_VERIFYPEER](https://curl.haxx.se/libcurl/c/CURLOPT_SSL_VERIFYPEER.html) for more information.

### timeout
Used with 'proxy' mode only.
Timeout in seconds for loading graph images from Grafana server. Defaults to `5 seconds`.
If you often get a timeout message then the image, raise this to 10 or more seconds.

### authentication
Authentication type used to access Grafana. Can be set to `anon`,`token` or `basic`. Defaults to `anon`.
 * `anon` needs enabled [auth.anonymous] enabled in grafana.ini.
 * `basic` needs [auth.basic] enabled in grafana.ini.
 * `token` needs a Service Accounts's token from Grafana.

### username
Used with 'proxy' mode, non anonymous access only.
The username used to authenticate to Grafana server.

### password
Used with 'proxy' mode, non anonymous access only.
The password used to authenticate to Grafana server.

### apitoken
For token access you need to create a Service Account and assign it a token.
See the [Grafana Docs](https://grafana.com/docs/grafana/latest/administration/service-accounts/).

### enablecache
Only for `indirectproxy` access mode. Enables or disable caching graphs. Defaults to `yes`.

Note that depending on your browser images might be cached implicitly.

### usepublic
Enables/Disables the usage of a `public` URL to the Grafana server.
If you have set your grafanaurl for example to localhost then you can set here a URL that is used for to link to Grafana.

### publichost
Used with 'usepublic = yes'.
Public host name and port. Same as `host` option.

### publicprotocol
Used with 'usepublic = yes'.
The protocol used for the links to graphs.

### custvardisable
Name of the custom variable (vars.idontwanttoseeagraph for example) that will disable graphs if set to anything else then false (bool or string). Defaults to `grafana_graph_disable`.
For example `vars.idontwanttoseeagraph = true` or `vars.idontwanttoseeagraph = "true"` or `vars.idontwanttoseeagraph = "whatever"` will disable graphs, while `vars.idontwanttoseeagraph = false` or `vars.idontwanttoseeagraph = "false"` will still show the graphs. This is for Director, because you can't delete vars in Director.

### custvarconfig
Name of the custom variable (vars.usegraphconfig for example) that will be used as graph config name. Defaults to `grafana_graph_config`.
This will overwrite the search order and force the module to use the graph configuration name that the variable points to.
For example you have `vars.grafana_graph_config = "check_my_tesla"` in your service configuration, the module will look for
an [graph configuration](04-graph-configuration.md) that is named `check_my_tesla` and use this to render/show the performance graph.
If there is no such a configuration, the `default-template` will be used.
